Great team leaders:

    Manage the work. The best leaders manage their team's work. ...
    Coach their people. ...
    Communicate information. ...
    Act as change agents. ...
    Inspire their teams.
Delegate , lead by example be decisive , 
set clear goals. SMART Goal framework.  Specific Measurable Attainable Result-oriented Time-bound

Tangible  Qualities
    Calmness
    Optimism
    Imagination
    Courage  Taking Risk- competent team
    Skills necessary to possess the required strong skills themselves fast learner of skills

The Ten Intangibles: 
    1.	Wisdom
    2.	Will
    3.	Executive Maturity; managing emotions. consistently demonstrating sound action, behavior and judgment
    4.	Integrity
    5.	Social Judgment
    6.	Presence
    7.	Self-Insight introspection understanding oneself in some depth
    8.	Self-Efficacy our belief in our own ability to succeed plays a key role in how we think and how we feel. It also helps us establish our place in the world and can even determine what kind of goals we set and how we go about accomplishing those goals.
    9.	Fortitude Mental fortitude is defined as the ability to focus on and execute solutions when in the face of uncertainty or adversity. Don’t break under pressure
    10.	Fallibility the tendency to make mistakes or be wrong, esp in recollecting , analyzing, reporting 


StakeHolder Interaction
    Lead Without Being In Charge
     effective communication. Hold your ground. Be diplomatic and respect everyone on the team
     stakeholders resist as they have to assess risk, effort and ambiguity
     The tension between risky change (you) and secure status quo (stakeholders) is a natural and important result.
     If you want stuff to happen, you have to lead. But you’re not in charge. To do that, demonstrate frictionless clarity and move the audience to “Why not?”

Team lead activities
Project Status Deck
Finishes:
    Total planned finishes
    Actaul – to data
    Planned – to date
    remaining
    Project Team List
    Risk Plan & Status
    Probability
    Consequence/Impact
    On Plan
    Off Plan – can mitigate
    Off Plan – cannot mitigate


Software Delivery Performance Metrics
    1.	Deployment Frequency – How often does your organization deploy code to production?
    2.	Lead Time for Changes – How long does it take to go from code committed to code successfully running in production?
    3.	Change Failure Rate – How often does a deployment require a rollback, hotfix, etc.?
    4.	Mean Time to Restore – How long does it take to restore service when there is an issue?

